1. What might one learn from playing *Animal Crossing*? What are some hints that the seemingly frivolous and self-contained world of the game points to more serious issues that might influence gamers’ thinking about the world beyond its borders?
2. How does Bogost define (with an assist from Salen and Zimmerman) “play”? How does his understanding of the structure and function of play differ from common-sense understandings of the term? How is playing video games linked to other “playful” or “ludic” areas of culture, such as the literary experiments of the OULIPO group?
3. Bogost relies heavily on two terms with long, complicated histories that predate video games: *procedure* and *rhetoric*. Both of these terms have bad reputations, in a way. How does Bogost rehabilitate them and combine them to imagine a new form of rhetorical procedure or, better, “procedural rhetoric”? How do video games use procedure, in other words, to mount arguments that seek to change our thinking and behavior?
4. What’s “ideological” about video games? We’ll spend a lot of time with this term in the next unit, but what does Bogost mean by “ideology,” and how does he view video games as a) expressions of ideology and b) potential sites for critique of ideology? You might want to look at his readings of *The McDonald’s Videogame* or *America’s Army* for examples.
5. Why is what Bogost calls “procedural literacy” (2671) so important for us in the 21st century? What role does he imagine for educators, parents, and students in promoting this emergent mode of literacy, and what might be some payoffs of a more procedurally literate society?
6. What are some of the procedural rhetorics at work in your favorite video game? What are some of the “arguments” it makes, or what are some of the modalities it uses to change your view of the world? Does it allow for the critique of its own procedures? If so, how?
